International Exposure Study Abroad for ITS Students
Department of Informatics Faculty of Intelligent Electrical and Information Technology Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember

Overview
Each international program has different pre and post departure preparation, though some points are similar.
The preparation includes documentation, financial, belongings, knowledge, and psychology.
What to prepare when you are going to participate in a study abroad program?
Website: www.its.ac.id INSTITUT TEKNOLOGI SEPULUH NOPEMBER, Surabaya - Indonesia
Types of Program
Exchange

Opportunities to study abroad with ITS partner university.
Duration: 1-2 semesters.
Requirement: Credit transfer.
Internship

Opportunities to intern abroad with ITS partner university and non-partner.
Duration: 1-3 Months.
Recommended for final year students.
Short Program

Opportunities to study abroad with ITS partner university and non-partner.
Duration: 2 weeks – 1 month.
Types: Fully-funded or self-funded programs.
Double Degree

Opportunities to study abroad with ITS partner university and graduate with two independent degrees.
Duration: 2:2, 2.5:1.5, 3:1.
Requirement: Credit transfer.
Short Program Examples
National Cheng Kung University Summer School
International Summer/Winter University at Hochschule Darmstadt University of Applied Science, Germany
Feng Chia International Summer School
GKS ASEAN SCIENCES
Delightful Istanbul Summer or Winter School
Global Project Based Learning (GPBL) Shibaura Institute of Technology (SIT) Japan and KMUTT
More information: bit.ly/its-short-program
Internship Examples
Universiti Kuala Lumpur (UniKL) – MFI (Malaysia France Institute) Campus
Shibaura Institute of Technology, Japan
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Malaysia
Tarlac Agricultural University (TAU), Philippines
King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi (KMUTT), Thailand
National Chung Hsing University (NCHU), Taiwan
Pompeu Fabra University, Spain
More information: bit.ly/its-internship
Student Exchange Examples
Kumamoto University, Japan
Chung Ang University, South Korea
Chulalongkorn University, Thailand
King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi, Thailand
More information: bit.ly/its-student-exchange
Student Exchange (Erasmus+) Examples
Anadolu University, Turkey
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece
Cardiff University of Metropolitan, UK
Sapienza University of Rome, Italy
Warsaw University of Technology, Poland
Bialystok University of Technology, Poland
University of Szczecin, Poland
Coverage:
Transportation Fee: 1100 Euro
Living Allowance: 700 – 800 Euro/Month (based on contract)
Student Exchange (IISMA)
IISMA (Indonesian International Student Mobility Awards) is a scholarship scheme funded by the Government of Indonesia for mobility programs at top universities abroad.
Coverage:
Tuition fee
Monthly living expenses (including accommodation) according to PO LPDP
Health insurance during the program (excluding travel insurance)
Visa
Self Quarantine in destination country (if needed)
PCR Test
Flight ticket
International Exposure Collaboration and Support
Collaboration with DKG
Document handling and student exchange/internship partnerships with various universities in Taiwan, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, France, and others.
Joint Degree Partners
University of Queensland (2.5+1.5)
Fontys University (3+1)
Newcastle University (2+2)
Asia University (2+2)
Tomsk State University (2+2)
Prospectus Partners
Curtin University, Australia
University of Western Australia
Universiti Malaya, Malaysia
National Taiwan University of Technology, Taiwan
Budget Estimation
Europe:

Cost of living: €7,800 per year
Tuition fee: €10,140 per year
Australia:

Cost of living: AUD 18,000 per year
Tuition fee: AUD 25,040 per year
Scholarship Opportunities:

Available for those with good achievements.
Students in partner campuses pay 10% of ITS fees.
Exchange Course Policy
Full Study at Partner University:

Pay 10% of ITS fees.
Full Study at Partner University & Partial Study at ITS:

Pay 20% of ITS fees for up to 6 credits online.
Full Study at ITS & Partial Online Study at Partner University:

Pay 100% of ITS fees.
General Registration Overview
Important Documents:
Passport
Certificate of English proficiency
Official academic transcript in English
Certificate of enrollment
Learning agreement
Statement letter
Recommendation letter in English
Funding request assistance (optional)
GCW (non-degree) test certificate
Find International Program to Join
Source: Check ITS GE Web or Social Media (Instagram, Line, Facebook)
Web: www.its.ac.id/international
Instagram: @itsinternationaloffice
Line: @its_io
Facebook: facebook.com/ioits
Preparation of Required Documents
Learning Agreement & Statement Letter:
Download and fill from the web.
Course Selection and Credit Transfer
Check the syllabus of host university and Informatics syllabus at ITS.
Sign by Head/Secretary of Department.
Submission of Documents
Submit all documents to the ITS GE email (studyabroad@its.ac.id) as per the format on the program web.
ITS GE will provide further instructions.
